Citrine v0.6.0 is released! (#144)
CitrineInformatics/citrine-python: docs/source/workflows/performance_workflows.rst

Performance workflows
=====================

A performance workflow runs cross-validation analysis on a predictor configuration

> Registration and validation

Reviewer: This "Registration and Validation" section is awesome to have in the documentation. I think we should add it to the general AI Engine section since it is applicable to all modules and workflows.

Author: sure thing, moved to a more generalized area

---------------------------

A workflow is registered with a project and validated before it is ready for use.
Once registered, validation occurs automatically.
Validation status can be one of the following states:

-  **Created:** The module has been registered with a project and has been queued for validation.
-  **Validating:** The workflow is currently validating. The status will be updated to one of the subsequent states upon completion.
-  **Invalid:** Validation completed successfully but found errors with the workflow.
-  **Ready:** Validation completed successfully and found no errors.
-  **Error:** Validation did not complete.
   An error was raised during the validation process that prevented an invalid or ready status to be determined.
   Validation of a workflow and all constituent modules must complete with ready status before the workflow can be executed.

> 

Reviewer: In the states listed above we use the word module sometimes and other times the word workflows. Can we use "modules and workflows" when it applies to both.

Author: sure thing, fixed that

The following example demonstrates how to use the python SDK to register a performance workflow, wait for validation to complete and check the final status:

.. code:: python

   from time import sleep
   from citrine import Citrine
   from citrine.informatics.workflows import PerformanceWorkflow
   from citrine.informatics.analysis_configuration import CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration

   # create a session with citrine using API variables

>    session = Citrine(API_KEY, API_SCHEME, API_HOST, API_PORT)

Reviewer: we can remove this from this documentation, should be else where in citrine-python docs. Task for me to make sure it is and write up a card if it is not

>    project = session.projects.register('Example project')

Reviewer: we can remove this in this section. On the documentation we have a section on "projects"

   workflow = project.workflows.register(
       PerformanceWorkflow(
           name='Demo Performance Workflow',
           analysis=CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration(
               name='analysis_settings',
               n_folds=2,
               n_trials=3,

>                max_rows=200

Reviewer: can we show in here all the possible configurations (I think we are missing group by and seed)

Reviewer 2: Remember that _adding_ parameters is easier than removing them later. In that spirit, is there a reason we're exposing `seed` and `max_rows`?

(seed and group_by_keys are both missing, to answer the actual question)

           )
       )
   )

   # wait until the workflow is no longer validating
   # we must get the workflow every time we wish to fetch the latest status
   while project.workflows.get(workflow.uid).status == "VALIDATING":
       sleep(10)

   # print final validation status
   validated_workflow = project.workflows.get(workflow.uid)
   print(validated_workflow.status)
   # status info will contain relevant validation information
   # (i.e. why the workflow is valid/invalid)

>    print(validated_workflow.status_info)

Reviewer: we can leave this about printing the status and status_info though I will make a card to move this to a granulized area in the docs for workflows and modules (I dont think we have this in there right now)

Execution and results
---------------------

When a performance workflow is executed then the cross-validation analysis will be performed against the given `predictor` and will contain performance metrics

> for the `output` descriptor in your `predictor`.

Reviewer: @bfolie could you take a stab at the wording here to add maybe some color around cv?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Root-mean squared error (RMSE): the square root of the average of the squared prediction error
* Non-dimensional model error (NDME): The RMSE, normalized by the RMSE of a trivial model that always predicts the mean value of the data.
* Standard residual: The RMSE of the standardized error (the prediction error divided by the prediction uncertainty)
* Standard confidence: The fraction of predictions for which the prediction error is less than the prediction uncertainty
```

Reviewer 3: Note: There may be more thorough documentation somewhere else that we should just link to

> A workflow can be run using the python SDK.

Reviewer: below this line can we bring up lines 89-100. I want to show how to execute before showing the results

Triggering a workflow returns a workflow execution object.
A workflow execution has a status (in progress, succeeded, or failed) and results (once execution has succeeded).
Results of a successful workflow are returned as a dictionary.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below shows an example of the results object.
```

Performance workflows
=====================

> A performance workflow runs cross-validation analysis on a predictor configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A performance workflow performs analysis on a module.
Currently, the only analysis implemented is "cross validation analysis," which performs cross-validation on a predictor.
```

.. code:: python

   from time import sleep
   from citrine.informatics.workflows import PerformanceWorkflow
   from citrine.informatics.analysis_configuration import CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration

   workflow = project.workflows.register(
       PerformanceWorkflow(
           name='Demo Performance Workflow',
           analysis=CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration(
               name='analysis_settings',
               n_folds=2,
               n_trials=3,
               max_rows=200,
               seed=10,
               group_by_keys=['~~x']
           )
       )
   )

   # wait until the workflow is no longer validating
   # we must get the workflow every time we wish to fetch the latest status
   while project.workflows.get(workflow.uid).status == "VALIDATING":
       sleep(10)

   # print final validation status
   validated_workflow = project.workflows.get(workflow.uid)
   print(validated_workflow.status)
   # status info will contain relevant validation information
   # (i.e. why the workflow is valid/invalid)
   print(validated_workflow.status_info)

Execution and results
---------------------

> When a performance workflow is executed then the cross-validation analysis will be performed against the given `predictor` and will contain performance metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a performance workflow is executed against a module, it performs the analysis and returns an "analysis results" dictionary that contains performance metrics.
For a cross-validation analysis, cross-validation is performed against the supplied predictor: the predictor's training data are partitioned into several "folds," and each fold takes a turn acting as the "test set."
For each fold, the rest of the data are used to train the predictor, and the ensuing model is applied to the held-out test set.
By comparing the model's predictions to the true values, we can compute several performance metrics that provide information about model quality.
```

.. code:: python

   from time import sleep
   from citrine.informatics.workflows import PerformanceWorkflow
   from citrine.informatics.analysis_configuration import CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration

   workflow = project.workflows.register(
       PerformanceWorkflow(
           name='Demo Performance Workflow',
           analysis=CrossValidationAnalysisConfiguration(
               name='analysis_settings',
               n_folds=2,
               n_trials=3,
               max_rows=200,
               seed=10,
               group_by_keys=['~~x']
           )
       )
   )

   # wait until the workflow is no longer validating
   # we must get the workflow every time we wish to fetch the latest status
   while project.workflows.get(workflow.uid).status == "VALIDATING":
       sleep(10)

   # print final validation status
   validated_workflow = project.workflows.get(workflow.uid)
   print(validated_workflow.status)
   # status info will contain relevant validation information
   # (i.e. why the workflow is valid/invalid)
   print(validated_workflow.status_info)

Execution and results
---------------------

> When a performance workflow is executed against a module, it performs the analysis and returns an "analysis results" dictionary that contains performance metrics.

Reviewer 3: Note: I'm not sure if "analysis results dictionary" is the general way we want to present this to users, it's just the term that makes the most sense to me
